Conditional endorsement series triple section reworded (#326)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values conditional on various sets of possible measurement values.
Each series entry describes a different possible set of values.

> Series entries are ordered so that the set describing the most trustworthy state is evaluated first and least trustworthy state last.

Reviewer: The ordering leads to negative conditions in the head of the rule still. The possible evaluation inconsistency from Issue #321 remains.

If the conditions are mutually-exclusive, then there's no need to order them and the triple is syntactic sugar for multiple normal conditions.
If the conditions are not mutually-exclusive, then you need a way to stratify condition matching to regain logical consistency.

Given that you haven't stated any condition, I don't know what your intention is here.

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values based on an initial condition match followed by a series condition match.
Every `series-condition-record` selection MUST select the same `mkey`s.

> Every selected `mkey`'s corresponding mentioned set of keys `mval`.key MUST be the same across each `series-condition-record`.

Reviewer 2: Though one to parse... I am not sure I get what you mean here.  Is it that _"each selected `mkey` MUST have the same corresponding set of `mval`s across all `series-condition-record` entries"_ ?

Reviewer: Say you have 3 measurement-map in a selection. One has no mkey with mval { 0: …}. One has mkey 1 with mval: { 1: …, 4: … } and one has mkey 2 with mval {0: …, 7: …}. That has to be the same selection structure for all selections in the series.

Reviewer 2: OK, surely L1188 needs unpacking.  I suggest reorganising it this way:
1. make a short normative statement, followed by
2. an example

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

> The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values based on an initial condition match followed by a series condition match.
> Every `conditional-series-record` selection MUST select the same `mkey`s where
> every selected `mkey`'s corresponding set of keys (i.e., `mval`._key_) MUST be the same across each `conditional-series-record`.
> For example, if a selection matches on 3 `measurement-map` statements; `mkey` is the same for all 3 statements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values based on an initial condition match (specified in `condition:`) followed by a series condition match (specified in `selection:` inside conditional-series-record). Every conditional-series-record selection MUST select the same mkeys where every selected mkey's corresponding set of code points (i.e., mval.key) MUST be the same across each conditional-series-record. For example, if a selection matches on 3 measurement-map statements; mkey is the same for all 3 statements and mval contains only A= variable-X, B= variable-Y, and C= variable-Z (exactly the set of code points A, B, and C) respectively for every conditional-series-record in the series.
```

> and `mval` contains only A= _variable-X_, B= _variable-Y_, and C= _variable-Z_ respectively for every `conditional-series-record` in the series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `mval` contains only A= _variable-X_, B= _variable-Y_, and C= _variable-Z_ (exactly the set of keys A, B, and C) respectively for every `conditional-series-record` in the series.
```

> and `mval` contains only A= _variable-X_, B= _variable-Y_, and C= _variable-Z_ (exactly the set of keys A, B, and C) respectively for every `conditional-series-record` in the series.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values based on an initial condition match followed by a series condition match.
Every `series-condition-record` selection MUST select the same `mkey`s.
Every selected `mkey`'s corresponding mentioned set of keys `mval`.key MUST be the same across each `series-condition-record`.
For example, if a selection has 3 matching `measurement-map` statements:

* where `mkey` is omitted and where `mval` equals A,
* where `mkey` equals 1 and where `mval` equals B,
* where `mkey` equals 2 and where `mval` equals C.

> Then all selection statements in the series will use the same 3 matching criteria.

Reviewer: A B and C being the same across conditions would make only the first condition match if any do. You need to check that for all n > 0, for all m in cond[n].selection, there uniquely exists some m’ in cond[0].selection such that m’.mkey = m.mkey AND keys(m.mval) = keys(m’.mval).

Reviewer: Likewise every mkey in cond[0] must appear in later conds.

Author: The existing text says that selection matching is based on the results of the condition. That means the selection conditions are not searching ACS, rather they are searching the results of the condition match. The above explanation seems to be assuming searching over ACS no?

Author: I made another editing pass. Is it OK?

#### Conditional Endorsement Series Triple {#sec-comid-triple-cond-series}

> The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values based on an initial condition match followed by a series condition match where each series condition uses the same matching keys and where the data values are ordered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Conditional Endorsement Series Triple is used to assert endorsed values based on an initial condition match followed by a series condition match.
Every `series-condition-record` selection MUST select the same `mkey`s.
Every selected `mkey`'s corresponding mentioned set of keys `mval`.key MUST be the same across each `series-condition-record`.
These restrictions ensure that evaluation order does not change the meaning of the triple during the appraisal process.
```

Every `conditional-series-record` selection MUST select the same `mkey`s where
every selected `mkey`'s corresponding set of keys (i.e., `mval`._key_) MUST be the same across each `conditional-series-record`.

> For example, if a selection matches on 3 `measurement-map` statements; `mkey` is the same for all 3 statements

Reviewer: "a selection" and "3 measurement-map statements" seems like the wrong way of describing it, since a list of measurement-map with the same mkey is ill-formed. You can only have one measurement-map with a specific mkey in a list of measurement-map.

I think you mean there are 3 conditional-series-record, and for each record, they have 1 measurement-map in their list each, and that measurement map has the same mkey, and an mval of the form you state below. That would be fine. It would also be fine for each record to have more than 1 measurement-map, such as

```
[[mkey: 0, mval: {A: _variable-X_, B: _variable-Y_, C: _variable-Z_ }], [mkey: 1, mval: {D: _variable-W_}]]
```
I don't think "`mval` contains" is appropriate either, since the first mval also contains "A=_variable-X_" without the closure. You need to state that `mval` contains exactly those 3 key/value pairs and no more.
